# How to implement a Kotlin concept exercise

```diff
! WARNING! This document should be treated as a draft and will be actively changing. Sections that marked as WIP requires attention/rework from contributors.
```

This document describes the steps required to implement a concept exercise in any v3 track.

**Please please please read the docs before starting.** Posting PRs without reading these docs will be a lot more frustrating for you during the review cycle, and exhaust Exercism's maintainers' time. So, before diving into the implementation, please read the following documents:

- [The features of v3][docs-features-of-v3].
- [Rationale for v3][docs-rationale-for-v3].
- [What are concept exercise and how they are structured?][docs-concept-exercises]

Please also watch the following video:

- [The Anatomy of a Concept Exercise][anatomy-of-a-concept-exercise].

As this document is generic, the following placeholders are used:

- `<exercise-slug>`: the name of the exercise in kebab-case (e.g. `calculator-conundrum`).
- `<ExerciseSlug>`: the name of the exercise in PascalCase (e.g. `CalculatorConundrum`).
- `<concept-slug>`: the slug of one of the exercise's concepts in kebab-case (e.g. `anonymous-methods`).

Before implementing the exercise, please make sure you have a good understanding of what the exercise should be teaching (and what not). This information can be found in the [exercise's GitHub issue](https://github.com/exercism/v3/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3Atrack%2Fkotlin+Implement+new+concept+exercise+in%3Atitle).

Any concept exercise in any v3 track requires the following files to be created:

<pre>
languages
└── kotlin
    ├── concepts
    |   └── &lt;concept-slug&gt;
    |       ├── about.md
    |       └── links.json
    └── exercises
        └── concept
            └── &lt;exercise-slug>
                ├── .docs
                |   ├── instructions.md
                |   ├── introduction.md
                |   ├── hints.md
                |   └── source.md (required if there are third-party sources)
                ├── .meta
                |   |── design.md
                |   |── config.json
                |   └── Example.kt
                ├── src
                |   ├── main
                |   | 	└── kotlin
                |   | 		└── &lt;ExerciseSlug>.kt
                |   └── test
                |    	└── kotlin
                |    		└── &lt;ExerciseSlug>Test.kt
                └── gradle
                |	└── wrapper
                | 		├── gradle-wrapper.jar
                |		└── gradle-wrapper.properties
                ├── build.gradle.kts
                ├── gradlew
                └── gradlew.bat
</pre>

## Step 1: Add code files

The code files are track-specific and should be designed to help the student learn the exercise's concepts. The following Kotlin code files must be added (not necessarily in this order):

- A stub implementation file (`src/main/kotlin/<ExerciseSlug>.kt`).
- A file containing the test suite (`src/test/kotlin/<ExerciseSlug>.kt`).
- An example implementation file that passes all the tests (`meta/Example.kt`).

What these files look like depends on your track. Note that some tracks might require more files in addition to the three files just mentioned.

## Step 2: Add documentation files

How to create the files common to all tracks is described in the [how to implement a concept exercise document][how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise].

## Step 3: Add analyzer (optional)

```diff
! WIP ignore this for now as we don't have proper analyzer yet
```

Some exercises could benefit from having an exercise-specific analyzer. If so, please check the track's analyzer document for details on how to do this.

_Skip this step if you're not sure what to do._

## Step 4: Add representation (optional)

```diff
! WIP ignore this for now as we don't have proper analyzer yet
```

Some exercises could benefit from having an custom representation as generated by the track's representer. If so, please check the track's representer document for details on how to do this.

_Skip this step if you're not sure what to do._

## Inspiration

When implementing an exercise, it can be very useful to look at the exercises the track has already implemented. You can also check the exercise's [general concepts documents][reference] to see if other languages that have already an exercise for that concept.

## Help

If you have any questions regarding implementing this exercise, please post them as comments in the exercise's GitHub issue.

[reference]: ../reference/README.md
[docs-concept-exercises]: ../../../docs/concept-exercises.md
[docs-rationale-for-v3]: ../../../docs/rationale-for-v3.md
[docs-features-of-v3]: ../../../docs/features-of-v3.md
[anatomy-of-a-concept-exercise]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gkbBqd7hPrA
[how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise]: ../../../docs/maintainers/generic-how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise.md
